Context Transition:-
            Context Transition is the process of turning row into filter context.

What is Context Transition?
        Context transition occurs when DAX evaluates a measure within a different context than the one it was originally defined in.
This transition happens due to the interaction between row context and filter context. Let’s break it down:

Row Context:
    Row context refers to the current row being processed in a table or an iterator.
    When you iterate over rows (e.g., using SUMX, FILTER, or other iterators), DAX evaluates expressions within this row context.
    Each row has its own context, including column values from that row.

Filter Context:
    Filter context is determined by slicers, filters, and other selections applied to a report or visual.
    It defines which rows are visible or relevant for calculations.
    Filter context affects the results of measures.

Context Transition:
    When a measure references columns from related tables, DAX transitions from row context to filter context.
    This transition allows the measure to consider all related rows based on active relationships.
    The expanded table includes additional columns from related tables.

Example:
        Suppose we have a sales table (Sales) related to a date table (Calendar).
We want to calculate the total salesamount for each year. We create a measure called Total Sales:

Total Sales = SUM(Sales[SalesAmount])

Row Context:
      When iterating over rows in the Sales table, the measure evaluates within the context of each individual sale.
For each sale, it calculates the sum of SalesAmount.

Filter Context Expansion:
      If we create a visual that shows sales by year (using the Calendar table), DAX expands the filter context.
      The measure now considers all related sales for each year, not just the current row.
      It sums up the sales amount for the entire year.

Benefits:
    Context transition allows us to create powerful calculations across related data.
    Measures can seamlessly incorporate information from related tables.
    It ensures accurate results even when dealing with complex scenarios.
